PROBLEM STATEMENT
Public health experts around the globe are scrambling to understand, track, and contain a new virus that appeared in Wuhan,
 China, at the beginning of December 2019. The World Health Organization named the disease caused by the virus COVID-19, 
which references the type of virus and the year it emerged. 
The WHO declared that the virus is a pandemic.
You can see where and how many cases of the illness have been reported in this map. There have been over 200,000 confirmed cases and 9,000 deaths. 
Over 84,000 people have recovered from the illness. The majority of the illnesses were initially in China, 
where the virus first emerged, but the rate of new cases there has nearly stopped. 
There are now more cases outside of China than there were inside of it at the height of the outbreak. 
There are large outbreaks of the disease in multiple places, including Spain, Italy, and Iran. 
There are over 9,000 people with confirmed cases of COVID-19 and 150 deaths from the virus in the US.
As this important story continues to unfold, our hope is to answer all of your questions as people work 
to understand this virus and contain its spread.



introduction
At the end of December, public health officials from China informed the World Health Organization that they had a problem: an unknown, new virus was causing pneumonia-like illness in the city of Wuhan.
 They quickly determined that it was a coronavirus and that it was rapidly spreading through and outside of Wuhan.
Coronaviruses are common in animals of all kinds, and they sometimes can evolve into forms that can infect humans.
 Since the start of the century, two other coronaviruses have jumped to humans, causing the SARS outbreak in 2002 
and the MERS outbreak in 2012.
Scientists think this new virus first became capable of jumping to humans at the beginning of December. 
It originally seemed like the virus first infected people at a seafood market in Wuhan and spread from there. 
But one analysis of early cases of the illness, published January 24th, found that the first patient to get sick 
did not have any contact with the market. Experts are still trying to trace the outbreak back to its source.
The type of animal the virus originated from is not clear, although one analysis found that the genetic sequence 
of the new virus is 96 percent identical to one coronavirus found in bats. Both SARS and MERS originated in bats.